[BEAM-10480] Add a small announcement for Splittable DoFn. (#13456)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/blog/splittable-do-fn-is-available.md

---
title:  "Splittable DoFn in Apache Beam is Ready to Use"
date:   2020-12-16 00:00:01 -0800
categories:
  - blog
aliases:
  - /blog/2020/12/16/splittable-do-fn-is-available.html
authors:
  - boyuanzz
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

> 

Reviewer: It is a bit spartan. Maybe add a little bit of a story, or thank a people who contributed etc.

I will defer to Rose for the review.

In 2017, [Splittable DoFn Blog Post](https://beam.apache.org/blog/splittable-do-fn/) proposed
to build [Splittable DoFn](https://s.apache.org/splittable-do-fn) APIs as the new recommended way of

> building I/O connectors. Now Splittable DoFn is ready to use. Try out building your Splittable DoFn

Reviewer 2: Summarize the goals of SDF, romanticize it, and tell users why they should be excited to use the new feature. Some questions you should answer here:
 
  * Why should I prefer SDF over the 'old' I/O connectors? (new capabilities? better perf? cleaner api?)
  * Is it worth migrating my existing i/o connector to SDF? Why?
  * What's next for SDFs? (optional)
  * Why did it take 3 years to do this? (optional)
  * Is there a specific place/component/label to report bugs? (optional)

These details may duplicate content from the other blog posts but that is fine. A high level, short summary, of them would help me avoid having to sift through the links.

Author: Just updated the blog with more details. Would you like to take another look?

that occur inside an organization) part of
[Google’s Cloud Healthcare API](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare).
* [BoundedSource wrapper](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/571338b0cc96e2e80f23620fe86de5c92dffaccc/sdks/java/core/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/Read.java#L248):
A wrapper which converts an existing [BoundedSource](https://beam.apache.org/releases/javadoc/current/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/BoundedSource.html)
implementation to a splittable DoFn.
* [UnboundedSource wrapper](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/571338b0cc96e2e80f23620fe86de5c92dffaccc/sdks/java/core/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/Read.java#L432):
A wrapper which converts an existing [UnboundedSource](https://beam.apache.org/releases/javadoc/current/org/apache/beam/sdk/io/UnboundedSource.html)
implementation to a splittable DoFn.

**Python Examples**
* [BoundedSourceWrapper](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/571338b0cc96e2e80f23620fe86de5c92dffaccc/sdks/python/apache_beam/io/iobase.py#L1375):
A wrapper which converts an existing [BoundedSource](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.io.iobase.html#apache_beam.io.iobase.BoundedSource)

> implementation to a splittable DoFn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
implementation to a splittable DoFn.

**Go Examples**
 *  [textio.ReadSdf](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/ce190e11332469ea59b6c9acf16ee7c673ccefdd/sdks/go/pkg/beam/io/textio/sdf.go#L40) implements reading from text files using a splittable DoFn.
```
**

date:   2020-12-16 00:00:01 -0800
categories:
  - blog
aliases:
  - /blog/2020/12/16/splittable-do-fn-is-available.html
authors:
  - boyuanzz
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

In 2017, [Splittable DoFn Blog Post](https://beam.apache.org/blog/splittable-do-fn/) proposed
to build [Splittable DoFn](https://s.apache.org/splittable-do-fn) APIs as the new recommended way of
building I/O connectors. Splittable DoFn is a generalization of `DoFn` that gives it the core
capabilities of `Source` while retaining `DoFn`'s syntax, flexibility, modularity, and ease of
coding. Thus, it becomes much easier to develop complex I/O connectors with simpler and reusable

> code.

Reviewer 2: +1

> code.

Author: This blog is titled with `Splittable DoFn in Apache Beam is Ready to Use`. Does it help on this purpose?

> code.

Reviewer 4: It's moreso to help the flow of the post. It makes sense to go background info -> main point -> details. Plus, from my experience it's relatively common for articles/blog posts to restate the title. So while the title is great, I still think having this sentence helps.

> code.

Author: Thanks! Just updated the blog.

Splittable DoFn has three advantages over the existing `UnboundedSource` and `BoundedSource`:
* Splittable DoFn provides a unified set of APIs to handle both unbounded and bounded cases.
* Splittable DoFn enables reading from source descriptors dynamically.
  - Taking Kafka IO as an example, within `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` API, you must specify
  the topic and partition you want to read from during pipeline construction time. There is no way
  for `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` to accept topics and partitions as inputs during execution
  time. But it's native to Splittable DoFn.
* Splittable DoFn fits in as any node on a pipeline freely with the ability of splitting.
  - `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` has to be the root node of the pipeline to gain performance
  benefits from splitting strategies, which limits many real-world usages. This is no longer a limit
  for a Splittable DoFn.

As Splittable DoFn is now ready to use with all the mentioned improvements, it is the recommended

> way to build the new I/O connectors.Try out building your own Splittable DoFn by following the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
way to build the new I/O connectors. Try out building your own Splittable DoFn by following the
```

[programming guide](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#splittable-dofns). We

> have provided tones of common utility classes such as common types of `RestrictionTracker` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have provided tonnes of common utility classes such as common types of `RestrictionTracker` and
```

`WatermarkEstimator` in Beam SDK, which will help you onboard easily. As for the existing I/O
connectors, we have wrapped `UnboundedSource` and `BoundedSource` implementations into Splittable
DoFns, yet we still encourage developers to convert `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` into actual
Splittable DoFn implementation to gain more performance benefits.

> Many thanks to every contributor who brought this highly expected design into the data processing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many thanks to every contributor who brought this highly anticipated design into the data processing
```

I think this is what you mean?

world. We are really excited to see that users benefit from Splittable DoFn.

> At the end, hope you enjoy exploring some real-world Splittable DoFn examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are some real-world Splittable DoFn examples for you to explore.
```

-->

In 2017, [Splittable DoFn Blog Post](https://beam.apache.org/blog/splittable-do-fn/) proposed
to build [Splittable DoFn](https://s.apache.org/splittable-do-fn) APIs as the new recommended way of
building I/O connectors. Splittable DoFn is a generalization of `DoFn` that gives it the core
capabilities of `Source` while retaining `DoFn`'s syntax, flexibility, modularity, and ease of
coding. Thus, it becomes much easier to develop complex I/O connectors with simpler and reusable
code.

Now we are pleased to announce that Splittable DoFn is ready for use in Beam Python/Java/Go SDKs
starting in version 2.25.0.

Splittable DoFn has three advantages over the existing `UnboundedSource` and `BoundedSource`:
* Splittable DoFn provides a unified set of APIs to handle both unbounded and bounded cases.
* Splittable DoFn enables reading from source descriptors dynamically.
  - Taking Kafka IO as an example, within `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` API, you must specify
  the topic and partition you want to read from during pipeline construction time. There is no way
  for `UnboundedSource`/`BoundedSource` to accept topics and partitions as inputs during execution

>   time. But it's native to Splittable DoFn.

Reviewer 5: Replace "native" with "built-in" (if that what you mean)

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-n
